---
layout: position

title: Bioinformatician

project:
  - hubmap
---

We are looking for a Bioinformatician to join the Gehlenborg Lab in the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School, for an exciting opportunity in steering how cutting-edge data from NIH-funded tissue atlas projects such as the [Human Biomolecular Atlas Program](https://hubmapconsortium.org) (HuBMAP), the [Human Tumor Atlas Network](https://humantumoratlas.org) (HTAN), and the [Cellular Senescence Network](https://sennetconsortium.org) (SenNet) is collected, curated, and displayed. The Gehlenborg Lab is leading efforts to design data visualization tools and contributes to the development of [data portals for these tissue atlas projects](https://portal.hubmapconsortium.org/).

#### Responsibilities
The Bioinformatician will be a part of the team responsible for collecting, curating, and displaying data generated by HuBMAP, HTAN, and SenNet in a Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Re-usable (FAIR) manner. The individual will participate in the specification, design, and implementation of tools that integrate, search, and display the data, working closely with other bioinformaticians, software engineers, and data visualization researchers. Furthermore, the Bioinformatician will execute data validation processes  and data curation efforts. The successful candidate must be able to learn and work with minimal supervision, yet collaborate effectively with co-workers and a wide range of project partners.

### Work Environment
The Department of Biomedical Informatics (DBMI) is a leading hub for computational biology, translational bioinformatics, and precision medicine. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, the department is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, students, engineers, and staff whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The working environment combines the best features of a startup (fast pace, flexibility) with those of one of the leading medical schools (excellent benefits, outstanding opportunities for learning, and great resources).
The position provides excellent opportunities for anyone interested in pursuing a research career through participation in cutting-edge research projects, opportunities to contribute to scientific publications, and to take formal courses at the Harvard Extension school at reduced costs.
 
The Gehlenborg Lab is using a hybrid workplace model and this position can be fully remote, hybrid, or in-person. All remote work must be performed within a state in which Harvard is registered to do business (CA, CT, MA, MD, NH, NY, RI, and VT).

### Required skills & experience
- Bachelor’s degree in Bioinformatics, Computational Biology, Biomedical Informatics, Computer Science, Molecular Biology, or a related field and 2 years work experience, or a Master’s degree in any of the above fields
- Experience with modern high-throughput genomics or bioimaging experiments and their data types, analysis tools, and file formats
- Experience in writing software for data wrangling, analysis, and management in Python and/or R

### Bonus/Plus
- Experience working with (spatial) single-cell data or assays
- Working knowledge of cell biology, genetics, and other areas of molecular biology
- Experience with REST APIs, (graph) databases, Elasticsearch, software development practices, and version control
- Project management skills including team management, issue management, and change management
- Strong verbal and written communication skills
- Ability to understand scientific literature, experimental procedures and their limitations, and current needs of the research community

### Terms
This is a one-year grant-funded position *available immediately* with a strong possibility of renewal.

### How to Apply
Candidates should submit their CV, an expression of interest, and contact information for three references to [nils@hms.harvard.edu](mailto:nils@hms.harvard.edu) with [Bioinformatician] in the subject.

*Harvard Medical School is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and minorities are especially encouraged to apply.*
