---
layout: position

title: HuBMAP Senior Bioinformatician 

project:
  - hubmap
---
We are looking for a Senior Bioinformatician to join the Gehlenborg Lab in the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School, for an exciting opportunity in steering how cutting-edge data from the NIH Common Fund Human Biomolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP) is collected, curated, and displayed. The Gehlenborg Lab is funded through the HuBMAP Integration, Visualization, and Engagement (HIVE) initiative and responsible for data curation and development of user interfaces and visualization tools for the HuBMAP Data Portal (https://portal.hubmapconsortium.org/).

Understanding how cellular organization influences the function of human tissues is critical for deeper insights into tissue growth, processes related to aging, and the emergence of disease. The Gehlenborg Lab at Harvard Medical School is part of the Human BioMolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP), an NIH Common Fund consortium that studies cellular organization in human tissues. The HuBMAP Consortium will provide standardized and validated datasets that will shed light on how cells are organized. These datasets will also yield insights into the variation in the cellular organization of normal tissues. The generation of these datasets will be made possible by the development of new experimental technologies and informatics tools funded by HuBMAP. 

The Senior Bioinformatician will be a part of the team responsible for collecting, curating, and displaying data generated by the HuBMAP Consortium in a Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Re-usable (FAIR) manner. The individual will participate in the specification, design, and implementation of tools that integrate, search, and display the data, working closely with data curators, software engineers, and research staff. The successful candidate must be able to learn and work independently, yet collaborate effectively with local co-workers and remote project partners.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics (DBMI) is a leading hub for computational biology, translational bioinformatics, and precision medicine. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, the department is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, students, engineers, and staff whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The working environment combines the best features of a startup (fast pace, flexibility) with those of one of the leading medical schools (excellent benefits, outstanding opportunities for learning, and great resources).

#### Required skills & experience
- PhD in Bioinformatics, Computational Biology, Biomedical Informatics, Computer Science, Molecular Biology, or a related field and 3 years work experience, or a master’s degree and 5 years work experience
- Experience with modern high-throughput genomics or bioimaging experiments and their data types, analysis tools, and file formats
- Experience in writing software for data wrangling, analysis, and management in Python and/or R

#### Bonus/Plus
- Experience working with (spatial) single-cell data or assays
- Working knowledge of cell biology, genetics, and other areas of molecular biology
- Experience with REST APIs, (graph) databases, Elasticsearch, software development practices, and version control
- Project management skills including team management, issue management, and change management
- Strong verbal and written communication skills
- Ability to understand scientific literature, experimental procedures and their limitations, and current needs of the research community

#### Terms
This is a one-year grant-funded position *available immediately* with a strong possibility of renewal.

#### COVID-19 Pandemic Notice
The lab has been operating remotely since March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and is not expected to return to the Harvard Medical School campus until at least June 2021. Nonetheless, successful applicants will be expected to take up residence in Massachusetts in order to comply with Harvard University employment regulations.

#### How to Apply
Candidates should submit their CV, an expression of interest, and contact information for three references to nils@hms.harvard.edu with [HuBMAP Senior Bioinformatician] in the subject.

*Harvard Medical School is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and minorities are especially encouraged to apply.*

