---
layout: position

title: Postdoctoral Fellow - Electronic Health Record Data Visualization 
---
We are hiring a postdoctoral fellow to develop novel visualization methods and educational materials for data generated by the [4CE Consortium](https://covidclinical.net/). 4CE is an international consortium for electronic health record (EHR) data-driven studies of the COVID-19 pandemic. This project is highly interdisciplinary and being conducted in close cooperation with clinical experts, providing an excellent opportunity for collaborative research. Key collaborators are [Isaac Kohane](https://dbmi.hms.harvard.edu/people/isaac-kohane), [Griffin Weber](http://weber.hms.harvard.edu), [Paul Avillach](https://avillach-lab.hms.harvard.edu), [Gabriel Brat](https://dbmi.hms.harvard.edu/people/gabriel-brat), and [Tianxi Cai](https://celehs.hms.harvard.edu) at Harvard Medical School.

#### Responsibilities
The postdoctoral fellows will be responsible for developing novel methodologies and applications to facilitate visual analysis of large clinical data sets derived from EHR systems. While the focus of the position is on the development of visualization approaches and educational materials, the role will also involve the integration of such tools with data analysis and data management tools. Our earlier work with partners in the 4CE Consortium is available on the [consortium website](https://covidclinical.net/data/index.html).

Other responsibilities include day-to-day project management, including coordination with collaborators and other team members, as well as the writing of manuscripts. Contribution to the grant writing efforts of the lab are expected.

#### Basic Requirements
Candidates must have a PhD degree in a quantitative field such as clinical/biomedical/medical informatics, computational biology, computer science or related fields and a track-record of publication in the top journals or conferences of their field. Hands-on experience with management, analysis, and visualization of biomedical data as well as experience in developing (web-based) interactive software tools are highly desired for this position. Excellent programming skills and working knowledge of state-of-the-art software development techniques are essential. Excellent written and verbal communication skills are crucial.

#### Additional Requirements
Experience with Python, JavaScript, and web application development are expected. Cloud computing skills are desirable. Previous research experience in areas such as EHR data analysis and clinical informatics research will be beneficial but are not required.

#### Terms
The position is available immediately and can be renewed annually. 

#### COVID-19 Pandemic Notice
The lab has been operating remotely since March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and is not expected to return to the Harvard Medical School campus until at least January 2021. Nonetheless, successful applicants will be expected to take up residence in Massachusetts in order to comply with Harvard University employment regulations. 

#### How to Apply
Candidates should submit their CV, a research statement, PDFs of their three best papers, and contact information for three references to nils@hms.harvard.edu with [POSTDOC] in the subject.

Harvard Medical School is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and minorities are especially encouraged to apply.