---
layout: position

title: Postdoctoral Fellow - Genomics and Imaging Data Visualization Tools for Nucleome Studies

project:
  - 4dn-dcic
  - higlass
  - hipiler
---
We are hiring multiple postdoctoral fellows to develop novel visualization methods and tools for data generated by the [NIH 4D Nucleome Consortium](https://data.4dnucleome.org). This project is highly interdisciplinary and being conducted in close cooperation with computational and experimental domain experts, providing an excellent opportunity for collaborative research. Key collaborators are [Peter Park](https://compbio.hms.harvard.edu/) at Harvard Medical School, [Leonid Mirny](http://mirnylab.mit.edu) at MIT, and [Job Dekker](http://www.dekkerlab.org) at HHMI/UMASS Medical School. Successful applicants will be contributing to the [NIH 4D Nucleome Consortium](https://commonfund.nih.gov/4dnucleome), which recently launched its 2nd phase (2020 - 2025).

#### Responsibilities
The postdoctoral fellows will be responsible for developing novel methodologies and applications to facilitate visual analysis of large heterogeneous biomedical data sets, including sequencing and imaging data. While the focus of the position is on the development of visualization approaches, the roles will also involve the integration of such tools with data analysis and data management tools. Our previous work with partners in the 4D Nucleome consortium resulted in tools such as [HiGlass](https://higlass.io) and [HiPiler](http://hipiler.higlass.io).

Other responsibilities include day-to-day project management, including coordination with collaborators and other team members, as well as the writing of manuscripts. Contribution to the grant writing efforts of the lab are expected.

#### Basic Requirements
Candidates must have a PhD degree in a quantitative field such as bioinformatics, computational biology, biomedical informatics, medical informatics, computer science or related fields and a track-record of publication in the top journals or conferences of their field. Hands-on experience with management, analysis, and visualization of biomedical data as well as experience in developing (web-based) interactive software tools are highly desired for this position. Excellent programming skills and working knowledge of state-of-the-art software development techniques are essential. Excellent written and verbal communication skills are crucial.

#### Additional Requirements
Experience with Python, JavaScript, and web application development are expected. Cloud computing skills are desirable. Previous research experience in areas such as (single-cell) genomics, epigenomics, or imaging will be beneficial but are not required.

#### Terms
The position is available immediately and can be renewed annually. 

#### COVID-19 Pandemic Notice
The lab has been operating remotely since March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and is not expected to return to the Harvard Medical School campus until at least January 2021. Nonetheless, successful applicants will be expected to take up residence in Massachusetts in order to comply with Harvard University employment regulations. 

#### How to Apply
Candidates should submit their CV, a research statement, PDFs of their three best papers, and contact information for three references to nils@hms.harvard.edu with [POSTDOC] in the subject.

Harvard Medical School is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and minorities are especially encouraged to apply.