---
layout: position

title: Senior Data Curator - Human BioMolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP)

project:
  - vitessce
---
We are hiring a Senior Data Curator to join the Gehlenborg Lab to lead data curation efforts in the NIH Human BioMolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP).

The Gehlenborg lab in the Department of Biomedical Informatics is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, and engineers whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The Department leads the development of computational and informatics techniques to address pertinent challenges in modern biological sciences and medicine. The Department’s faculty conduct research at the intersection of biomedicine and information sciences, including bioinformatics, functional genomics, translational medicine, and clinical knowledge management. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, it provides a rich scientific environment, with many seminar series and invited speakers of the highest caliber.

#### Responsibilities
We are looking for a motivated Senior Data Curator to join the Gehlenborg Lab at Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School, for an exciting opportunity in steering how cutting-edge data from the NIH Common Fund Human BioMolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP) will be collected, curated, and displayed. Understanding how cellular organization influences the function of human tissues is critical for deeper insights into tissue growth, processes related to aging, and the emergence of disease.

The Gehlenborg Lab at Harvard Medical School is part of the Human BioMolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP), an NIH Common Fund consortium that will study cellular organization in human tissues. The HuBMAP consortium will provide standardized and validated datasets that will shed light on how cells are organized. These datasets also yield insights into the amount of variation in the cellular organization of normal tissues. Generation of these datasets will be made possible by the development of new experimental technologies and informatics tools funded by HuBMAP.

The Senior Data Curator will be working closely with the PI to coordinate all HuBMAP-related curation activities across the Consortium. The Senior Data Curator will be a part of the team responsible for collecting data generated by the HuBMAP Consortium in a Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and Re-usable (FAIR) manner. The individual will participate in the specification, design, and implementation of tools that integrate, search, and display the data, working closely with other data curators, and the software engineering and bioinformatics staff. The successful candidate must be able to learn and work independently, yet collaborate effectively with co-workers.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics (DBMI) is a leading hub for computational biology, translational bioinformatics, and precision medicine. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, the department is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, students, engineers, and staff whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The working environment combines the best features of a startup (fast pace, flexibility) with those of one of the leading medical schools (excellent benefits, outstanding opportunities for learning, and great resources).

#### Basic Requirements
 - Minimum of five years' post-secondary education and/or relevant work experience

#### Additional Requirements
 - Ph.D. in Biology, Bioinformatics or a related field and 3 years of work experience, or a master’s degree and 5 years' experience in data curation
 - Technical expertise in genetics, molecular biology, bioinformatics or related field
 - Experience with modern high-throughput genomics or microscopy experiments and their data types
 - Experience with basic computer programming/scripting languages
 - Experience working with single-cell data or assays Working knowledge of Python and/or R
 - Experience with REST APIs, relational databases, software development environments, and version control
 - Project management skills including team management, issue management, and change management
 - Strong verbal and written communication skills
 - Ability to understand scientific literature, experimental procedures and their limitations, and current needs of the research community

#### How to Apply
Please follow the instructions on the [Harvard Careers](https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/home/HomeWithPreLoad?PageType=JobDetails&partnerid=25240&siteid=5341&Areq=49515BR#jobDetails=1464435_5341) website.

Harvard Medical School is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and minorities are especially encouraged to apply.
