---
layout: position

title: UI/UX Developer - Human BioMolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP)

project:
  - vitessce
---
We are looking for a motivated UI/UX Developer to join the [Gehlenborg Lab](http://gehlenborglab.org) at the Department of Biomedical Informatics at Harvard Medical School, for an exciting opportunity in contributing to how cutting-edge data from the NIH Common Fund [Human BioMolecular Atlas Program](https://hubmapconsortium.org) (HuBMAP) will be made available to the research community through the [HuBMAP Portal](https://github.com/hubmapconsortium).

Understanding how cellular organization influences the function of human tissues is critical for deeper insights into tissue growth, processes related to aging, and the emergence of disease. The HuBMAP Consortium will provide standardized and validated datasets that will shed light on how cells are organized. These datasets will also yield insights into variation in the cellular organization of normal tissues. Generation of these datasets will be made possible by the development of new experimental technologies and informatics tools funded by HuBMAP.

The UI/UX Developer will be working closely with a team of local and remote software engineers, data analysts, and visualization experts in the consortium to deliver a data portal for end-users to display, download, and visualize cellular data generated by the consortium.

The Department of Biomedical Informatics (DBMI) is a leading hub for computational biology, translational bioinformatics, and precision medicine. Based on the Harvard Medical School Longwood Campus, the department is part of a vibrant community of scientists, physicians, students, engineers, and staff whose goal is to advance the boundaries of knowledge. The working environment combines the best features of a startup (fast pace, flexibility) with those of one of the leading medical schools (excellent benefits, outstanding opportunities for learning, and great resources).

#### Responsibilities
The UI/UX Developer is responsible for designing, prototyping, and implementing cutting-edge interactive web-based experiences and data visualizations, as well as for enhancing the design and usability of the HuBMAP Portal. Under the direction of the Portal Development team and the Principal Investigator, the UI/UX Developer will be responsible for designing and executing the layout of the HuBMAP Portal.

#### Basic Requirements
Bachelor's degree required. Minimum of three years' post-secondary education and/or relevant work experience designing user interfaces and user experiences for high-quality interactive web apps and/or visuals, including formats for online and mobile device delivery, demonstrated by a portfolio of successful work. In-depth knowledge of design principles coupled with industry standards and trends in UI/UX design and cross-platform responsive design required. Working knowledge of modern JavaScript development, including familiarity with React and CSS preprocessors.

#### Additional Requirements
The ideal candidate will have outstanding visual design skills along with a strong understanding of web-based technologies and the ability to communicate seamlessly with developers as well as experiment with code. Experience with data visualization development. Experience with Agile methodologies, and open-source software development on GitHub. Experience with web mapping libraries like Deck.gl, Google Maps, Leaflet, or OpenLayers. Experience with front-end testing libraries like Cypress or Selenium and CI services like Travis. Experience with technologies that complement React, like Redux or MobX. Experience with user requirements gathering and prototyping. Experience working in distributed teams.

#### How to Apply
Please follow the instructions on the [Harvard Careers](https://sjobs.brassring.com/TGnewUI/Search/home/HomeWithPreLoad?partnerid=25240&siteid=5341&PageType=searchResults&SearchType=linkquery&LinkID=2958632#jobDetails=1492432_5341) website.

Harvard Medical School is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. Women and minorities are especially encouraged to apply.
